If your screen is frozen after attempting to log in to kali linux for the first time after install you can try these steps to fix the problem 
These are the steps i followed, but i made the mistake of choosing to install kdeplasma. If you do that it is likely you will get the frozen 
screen at login in which case follow these instructions:

Switch to a Virtual Console:
Press Ctrl + Alt + F4 (maybe f3, try them all)

Depending on your distribution, the default display manager can vary. Here are a few commands to try reconfiguring different display managers:

LightDM:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm


Restart Your System:
After configuring LightDM, restart your system:

Type:
sudo reboot

Attempt to Log In:
Once your system has restarted, try logging in again and see if the freezing issue still occurs.

If the issue persists, try the following steps :

Switch to a Virtual Console:
Press Ctrl + Alt + F4 (maybe f3, try them all) to switch to a virtual console. This allows you to access a text-based
terminal outside of the graphical environment.

Login to the Virtual Console:
Log in using your username and password.

Check System Logs:
Review system logs for any error messages or warnings. You can check the syslog for general system messages:

cat /var/log/syslog
Additionally, check Xorg logs for graphical server-related information:
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log

Look for any error messages or patterns that might indicate what's causing the issue.

Check Disk Space and System Resources:
Ensure that there is sufficient free disk space and available system resources. You can check disk space with:
df -h
Check memory usage with:

free -h

Ensure that there are no critical resource shortages.

Restart the Graphical Environment:
Try restarting the graphical environment. You can do this by restarting the display manager. For LightDM, you can use:

sudo service lightdm restart
For other display managers, replace "lightdm" with the appropriate service name.

Revert to Previous Configuration:
If the issue started after changing the display manager, consider reverting to the previous configuration. If you were 
using GDM before, you can switch back to it:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm

Follow the prompts and restart your system.

After going through these steps, check if the issue is resolved. If you find any relevant error messages or if the problem persists, 
please share the details, and I'll do my best to assist you further.
